The BOSS initiative aims to reach underrepresented groups in tech who want to be mentored and assisted to learn how to work on open source projects. We will provide a safe space and an accompanied methodology for them to learn basic concepts of working in a small open source project in practice and build enough background for them to, in the end of the program, be able to choose other projects to continue their contributions. The mentoring process helps build confidence, filling in technical gaps, and engaging the participants.
In the BOSS program, besides the technical aspects of introducing newcomers to open source, we deal with some challenges to inclusion, namely,  intersectionality and impostor syndrome. Intersectionality demonstrates how diversity dimensions, such as gender, race,  ethnicity and disabilities, are not mutually exclusive categories but intersecting ones. Impostor syndrome refers to a person's experience of feeling like an intellectual phony despite having the expected credentials. Impostor syndrome is most often experienced by women, but it also affects other minorities.
In BOSS, we want people who embody diversity characteristics and measure their own qualifications and competence. We see diversity from the intersectional perspective. We want people who are not white, cisgender, and male to experience a feeling of belonging, true inclusion and engaged in OSS communities. The initiative helps to boost participantes technical and no technical skill, while fostering a welcoming community. And it is not only about letting people in; little siblings must believe they can be successful and have corroborating experiences. Retention is a big part of BOSS initiative.

We detail the phases of the BOSS program, with some lessons learned from previous initiative season execution.
